Require that names and namespaces are one global space across all semantic convention areas (#832)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/common/common.md

  words by underscores (i.e. use snake_case). For example `http.status_code`
  denotes the status code in the http namespace.

- Names SHOULD NOT coincide with namespaces. For example if
  `service.instance.id` is an attribute name then it is no longer valid to have
  an attribute named `service.instance` because `service.instance` is already a
  namespace. Because of this rule be careful when choosing names: every existing
  name prohibits existence of an equally named namespace in the future, and vice
  versa: any existing namespace prohibits existence of an equally named

>   attribute or label key in the future.

Reviewer: I agree with the overall uniqueness requirement, but the motivation for this paragraph is not clear to me. Why would it be bad to have a name `service.instance`? Yes, it clashes with the namespace of `service.instance.id`, but so what?

Author: Often the namespaces represent "things". For example all attributes in `k8s.pod.*` namespace are about Kubernetes Pod. If we allow an attribute name that coincides with a namespace it appears that the value of the attribute describes the "thing". However, in this case why is it not just another attribute _under_ that namespace? What would be a reasonable value for `k8s.pod` attribute that does not have a _better_ name in the `k8s.pod.*` namespace?
I think if attributes like that existed it would be a source of confusion. Does `service.instance` attribute describe something about `service` (as a "thing") or something about `service.instance` (which is a different "thing")?

The requirement I added removes this confusion. When attributes are used for "things" it is very clear which "thing" they are about, it is the "thing" denoted by their namespace (whereas if we allowed what you suggest it could be also the "thing" denoted by the parent namespace).

### Recommendations for OpenTelemetry Authors

- All names that are part of OpenTelemetry semantic conventions SHOULD be part
  of a namespace.

- When coming up with a new semantic convention make sure to check existing
  namespaces for
  [Resources](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/tree/master/specification/resource/semantic_conventions),
  [Spans](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/tree/master/specification/trace/semantic_conventions),
  and
  [Metrics](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/tree/master/specification/metrics/semantic_conventions)
  to see if the new name fits.

- When a new namespace is necessary consider whether it should be a top-level
  namespace (e.g. `service`) or a nested namespace (e.g. `service.instance`).

> - Semantic conventions exist for four areas: for Resource, Span and Log

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should emphasize that within, Span we have span attributes, event attributes, and link attributes. Names should probably be unique over all three. Which also clarifies that events (with their names) are not namespaces.

Author: Very good point. Let me add.

Author: Added a sentence about Events and Links.

- When a new namespace is necessary consider whether it should be a top-level
  namespace (e.g. `service`) or a nested namespace (e.g. `service.instance`).

> - Semantic conventions exist for 4 areas: for Resource, Span and Log attribute
>   and for Metric label keys. Identical namespaces or names in these areas MUST

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Semantic conventions exist for four areas: Resource, Span and Log attribute names,
  as well as Metric label keys. Identical namespaces or names in these areas MUST
```

Author: Fixed.
